Meeting of Federal Open Market Committee July 18, 1967

MINUTES OF ACTIONS

A meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee was held in the offices of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in Washington, D. C., on Tuesday, July 18, 1967, at 9:30 a.m.

PRESENT: Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr.

Hayes, Vice Chairman, presiding Brimmer Maisel Mitchell Robertson Scanlon Sherrill Swan Wayne Patterson, Alternate for Mr. Francis Messrs. Ellis, Hickman, and Galusha, Alternate Members of the Federal Open Market Committee Messrs. Bopp, Clay, and Irons, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Kansas City, and Dallas, respectively Mr. Holland, Secretary Mr. Sherman, Assistant Secretary Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary Mr. Molony, Assistant Secretary Mr. Hackley, General Counsel Messrs. Baughman, Craven, Garvy, Hersey, Jones, Koch, Partee, and Ratchford, Associate Economists Mr. Holmes, Manager, System Open Market Account Mr. Coombs, Special Manager, System Open Market Account Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel, Board of Governors Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board of Governors Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Mr. Bernard, Economist, Government Finance Section, Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary, Board of Governors Mr. Lewis, First Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Messrs. Eisenmenger, Eastburn, Mann, Brandt, Tow, and Green, Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Kansas City, and Dallas, respectively Mr. Deming, Manager, Securities Department, Federal Reserve Bank of New York Mr. Kareken, Consultant, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis By unanimous vote, the minutes of actions taken at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on June 20, 1967, were approved.

The memorandum of discussion for the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on June 20, 1967, was accepted.

By unanimous vote, the action of members of the Federal Open Market Committee on June 29, 1967, approving an amendment to paragraph 2 of the Committee's Authorization for System Foreign Currency Operations, effective June 30, 1967, to change the maximum period authorized for the reciprocal currency arrangement with the Netherlands Bank from 3 months to 6 months, was ratified.

By unanimous vote, paragraph 2 of the Authorization for System Foreign Currency Operations was amended, effective immediately, to delete therefrom the column headed "Maximum period of arrange ment (months)" and to incorporate in the text of the paragraph provision for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain reciprocal currency arrangements with specified foreign banks for periods up to a maximum of 12 months.

By unanimous vote, the System open market transactions in foreign currencies during the period June 20 through July 17, 1967, were approved, ratified, and confirmed.

By unanimous vote, increases of $50 million each, from $200 million to $250 million, in the swap arrangements with the Swiss National Bank and the Bank for International Settlements (System drawings in Swiss francs) were approved.

By unanimous vote, an increase from $200 million to $300 million in the swap arrangement with the Bank for International Settlements involving System drawings in authorized European cur rencies other than Swiss francs was approved.

In consequence of the foregoing actions authorizing increases in the swap arrangements with the Swiss National Bank and the Bank for International Settlements, there was also approved by unanimous vote, effective immediately, the necessary amendment to paragraph 2 of the Authorization for System Foreign Currency Operations. With this and other amendments approved at this meeting, the paragraph read as follows:

The Federal Open Market Committee directs the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to maintain reciprocal currency arrangements ("swap" arrangements) for System Open Market Account for periods up to a maximum of 12 months with the following foreign banks, which are among those designated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under Section 214.5 of Regulation N, Relations with Foreign Banks and Bankers, and with the approval of the Committee to renew such arrangements on maturity:

Foreign bank Austrian National Bank National Bank of Belgium Bank of Canada National Bank of Denmark Bank of England Bank of France German Federal Bank Bank of Italy Bank of Japan Bank of Mexico Netherlands Bank Bank of Norway Bank of Sweden Swiss National Bank Bank for International Settlements System drawings in Swiss francs System drawings in authorized European currencies other than Swiss francs Amount of arrangement (millions of dollars equivalent)

100 150 500 100 1,350 100 400 600 450 130 150 100 100 250 By unanimous vote, the renewal, on their existing maturity basis, of the following swap arrangements, which were to mature on the dates indicated, was approved:

Foreign bank Bank of Sweden Swiss National Bank Bank for International Settlements System drawings in Swiss francs System drawings in authorized European currencies other than Swiss francs Austrian National Bank Bank of Japan German Federal Bank Bank of France Maturity of latest authorized renewal July 19, 1967 July 20, 1967 July 20, 1967 July 20, 1967 July 26, 1967 July 28, 1967 August 9, 1967 August 10, 1967 With Mr. Mitchell dissenting, the Special Manager of the System Open Market Account was authorized to explore the possibility of placing all of the System's swap arrangements on a 12-month basis, with maturities at year end.

By unanimous vote, the open market transactions in Government securities, agency obligations, and bankers' acceptances during the period June 20 through July 17, 1967, were approved, ratified, and confirmed.

With Messrs. Brimmer, Maisel, and Mitchell dissenting, the Committee decided to omit from the current economic policy directive to be issued at this meeting the reference to utilization of opera tions in coupon issues in supplying part of reserve needs that had appeared in the directives issued at the meetings on May 23 and June 20, 1967.

By unanimous vote, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was authorized and directed, until otherwise directed by the Committee, to execute transactions in the System Open Market Account in accordance with the following current economic policy directive:

The economic and financial developments reviewed at this meeting indicate that economic activity has been rising modestly and that prospects are for further expansion. Output is still being retarded by adjustments of excessive inventories, but growth in final demands continues strong, reflecting some strengthening in con sumer expenditures for durable goods and housing, and also further increases in Government outlays. The over all indexes of both wholesale and retail prices have risen further, although wholesale prices of industrial commodities have remained stable. Bank credit expansion has been large in recent weeks. Most short- and long-term interest rates, after reaching advanced levels under the influence of heavy public and private securities market financing, have declined somewhat recently. The balance of payments deficit has remained substantial despite some improvement in the foreign trade surplus. In this situation, it is the Federal Open Market Committee's policy to foster money and credit conditions, including bank credit growth, conducive to continuing economic expansion, while recognizing the need for reasonable price stability for both domestic and balance of payments purposes.

To implement this policy, while taking account of forthcoming Treasury financing activity, System open market operations until the next meeting of the Committee shall be conducted with a view to maintaining about the prevailing conditions in the money market; but operations shall be modified insofar as the Treasury financing permits to moderate any apparent tendency for bank credit and money to expand more than currently expected.

It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee would be held on Tuesday, August 15, 1967, at 9:30 a.m.

The meeting adjourned.

Secretary